>> Scott Moss: All right, so now that we
have some context on how a GraphQL server
is made and how it's built,
let's dive a little deeper.
First thing I want to talk
about is the query type.
So as a reference,
let's just go back to what we have here,
a query type is this, right?
So we talked about types or what you
will also hear them referred to in
the graphical communities object types
because they are literally definitions of
objects or nodes that your API can expose.
So a query type is just a special type
that the GraphQL server is expecting
to have, there's nothing special, there's
nothing else you need about the query
type other than the fact that GraphQL
expects it to be there to expose data.
Other than that it follows the same
rules as every other type.
>> Scott Moss: So like I said, it's a type
on a schema that defines operations
clients can perform to access data that
resembles the shape of other types in
the schema, which is exactly what we did.
So we had to type, it defined a field that
its value is expected to be the shape of
another type that's defined in our schema.
You can also put scholars here I mean,
you can say a query just returns a string,
there's nothing wrong with that.
If I were to do that and execute
this query or let me run this again
and go back to playground, refresh this.
If I were to do this, but
keep this query asking for
an object, I'm gonna get
an error here because it's saying
the me field must not have a selection
since string has no sub-fields.
So, me doesn't return an object anymore,
it just returns a string.
And the reason it still brings, I didn't
change the resolvers to actually return
a string, the resolvers
are still returning an object.
So you can see GraphQL
really is very touchy about
following the rules of your schema,
it's very strongly typed so nothing is
gonna work unless you obey those rules.
So Creating Queries, we already
walked through it super fast but
in more detail it's actually just
as simple as us walking through it.
So the first thing you do is you create
a query type in the schema definition
language which is exactly what we just did
and then you add fields to the Query Type.
And then the next thing is you have to
create the resolvers for the fields.
So we talked a little bit about
resolvers and kind of the functions and
how they're supposed to resolve a data.
But other than that, that's all
you have to do to create a query.
It's just that if you have more queries
here then you would add more fields.
So if I want to say, to get me as a user,
to get, I don't know,
some friends, you could say friends
turns an array of users like that.
There's no limit to what you want to
do as long as you respect the rules of
the schema that you created, so
you can use scholars, you can use types.
And as long as your resolvers
were named exactly the same and
return the respective values,
then you can do whatever you want.
That's your schema so
there's no limitations there.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: If you have a response
that has kind of complex data
structure with side loaded models but
you have to create
intermediate schema to iterate,
what's the word here here.
>> Speaker 2: Model, to define like
say a user's friend, jobs, and pets.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Paternal side load where you
create a model that define that response?
>> Scott Moss: Yes and no.
It's, so that's a really good question.
Wow, you can think it,
I like what you thinking.
So, yes, you can.
And there's a couple of
ways you can do that.
There's tools that literally will look at
like your Postgres database or your secret
database or your Mongo database and
generate a graphical schema based off of
it so that if you really wanted that
strongly type nature, you could do it.
Or you can use what we're about
to talk about the next slide,
which is just using the resolvers.
So if you think about it, the queries,
they don't care how you get the job done,
they just expect it to be
the exact shape that you say.
So if the resolvers need to go talk to
another database or another server or
something else, query don't care as
long as you return it in that shape.
So you as an engineer, if you know what it
is, then you could hard code that shape,
you could transform it yourself.
There's a lot of processes that you
can do to get it to be that shape.
>> Speaker 2: You should define that
shape in this GQL string right here.
>> Scott Moss: For now yes, but
if you get to composition and
there's another GraphQL schema,
you could just piggyback off of that one.
But in this case, yes,
it has to be defined in a schema somewhere
that the server knows about, 100%.
There's no way for you to send down
a shape that isn't defined in the schema.
>> Speaker 2: So you might have types
that aren't necessarily defining objects,
you're defining response objects.
>> Scott Moss: Yes, in fact, there's
really no reason why you would define
a type in a schema if you didn't have any
intention on it being returned somewhere.
Like there's like, why even define it.
So like, for instance, you might have
schemas or models in your database
that you never want a client to hit
because it's for like some internal tool.
You'll never put that on your
schema because GraphQL needs
not to know about it.
So yeah,
if you don't want someone querying for
it then you just don't add it.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: I think you
already covered this, the bang.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: The string and
the user array.
Is that a required field or what is that?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so it's not exactly
that it's required it's basically saying,
this is a non null field.
As in it can't be null if queried.
If it is null, GraphQL is gonna
throw an exception and say,
hey, I got back a null value for
email and you asked for an email but
it should not be null cuz
you put a bang there.
That's basically what it is.
Yeah, you could think of it as required
but, technically it's non null.
Which is the same damn thing, right.
>> Speaker 2: An empty
string is valid string?
>> Scott Moss: As long as it's not null.
Yeah, bossy is bossy is fine.
As far as the schema is concerned
your resolvers though was,
we're gonna talk about have the power
to do whatever they want, right?
You can add your own
validation checks in there.
It's just that automatically the rules,
automatically GraphQL server is gonna
look at your schema to figure out what
exceptions to throw based off these rules.
It's not going to know
about like runtime things,
like if this is end of string,
it doesn't look at the values like that.
So you have to do that in your resolver or
you can teach the GraphQL server that hey,
because this is MD I wanna
throw it right in here.
So you can teach but by default
it wont do for you automatically.